Document SSO (#1444)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/administration/sso/_index.md

---
title: "Single sign-on (SSO)"
weight: 4
description: |
  Platform.sh allows you to set up mandatory SSO with a third-party identity provider (IdP) for all your users.

> sidebarTitle: "Single sign-on (SSO)"

Reviewer: You don't need to include `sidebarTitle` on pages where the sidebar is the same as `title`

> sidebarTitle: "Single sign-on (SSO)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

tier:
  - Elite
  - Enterprise

> ---

Reviewer: The line 
```
layout: single
```
should be added to the front matter here.

{{< description >}}

Your SSO provider can be enabled for a specific email domain, for example `@example.com`. Every user with a matching email address will have to log in or register on Platform.sh using your SSO provider. Such users will not be able to use an alternative provider, or register a password, or change their email address.

## Mitigation controls

If you deactivate a user on your identity provider, they will not be able to log in or register on Platform.sh.

If the user is already logged in to Platform.sh, they will be automatically deactivated after their access token has expired (generally after 1 hour).

A deactivated user will no longer be able to use SSH, Git, or other Platform.sh APIs.

## Service users

If you have a service user with an email address under your SSO domain, e.g. `machine-user@example.com`, you can whitelist that user so that they will not be required to authenticate through your identity provider. 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---

> title: "SSO"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: "Single sign-on (SSO)"
```

weight: 4
description: |
  Platform.sh allows you to set up SSO with a third-party identity provider (IdP) to enforce your users to authenticate with a specific method.
sidebarTitle: "Single sign-on (SSO)"
tier:
  - Elite
  - Enterprise
---

{{< description >}}

Once SSO is enabled with your domain `@example.com`, every user with an `@example.com` email will have to authenticate through your SSO method. That user will not be able to login or register with a password or via a federated login.

## Mitigation controls

If you deactivate a SSO user on your identity provider, the user will not be able to login or register on Platform.sh.

> If the user is already logged in, he will be deactivated after his access token has expired (generally after 1 hour), and will be logged out of Platform.sh.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the user is already logged in to Platform.sh, they will be automatically deactivated after their access token has expired (generally after 1 hour).
```

> A deactivated user will not be able to use SSH nor Git anymore.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A deactivated user will no longer be able to use SSH, Git, or other Platform.sh APIs.
```

## Service users

If you have a service user with an email address under your SSO domain `machine-user@example.com`, you can whitelist that user so that they will not be required to authenticate through your SSO method. 

> Whitelisted users are only allowed to login or register with a password or via a federated login (Google, GitHub, Bitbucket).

Author: They still can use our generic Google login button if they have set up Google SSO.
